the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has held phone calls with
Israel's war cabinet ministers Benny
gance and yav Galant to discuss that
ceasefire proposal according to Israeli
media Galant told blinken that any deal
in Gaza must include the dismantling of
Hamas as a government and Military
Authority Daria shinin is a political
analyst and joins us now from Tel Aviv
great to have you with us the Americans
have have always framed this Biden
ceasefire proposal as something that the
Israelis would accept but doesn't seem
to be quite the case does it what do you
think I think the Israeli government is
stuck in the exact same political
Paradigm that Netanyahu has been in
since the very beginning and even though
the plan seems to be the most elaborate
and developed plan coming from the well
announced through the American
Administration supposedly reflecting
Israel's values Al or Israel's proposals
ultimately Netanyahu is in the same
position his right-wing flank his Ultra
nationalist rather extremist parties in
his Coalition have roundly rejected it
they are really uh you know kind of
slandering the deal in the worst terms
calling it a complete capitulation uh
victory for Hamas Etc and he has the
members of his expanded War cabinet uh
who are not exactly embracing it either
but they are at least not rejecting it
in quite the same level and so typically
Netanyahu is in the political bind they
of course the right-wing parties have
threatened to leave the government if
the deal goes through um and it's really
a very unpredictable situation because
the prime ministers uh you know has not
I mean he has essentially given out his
own statements rejecting what seem to be
the terms of the deal we're not seeing
you know even even those of us who know
how to read between the lines of what
the government is saying they're they're
being very very tight lipped about any
opening for embracing this deal if those
right-wing um members the ultra
nationalist members of netanyahu's
government do withdraw does that bring
down the
government not necessarily there are
opposition parties that have numerous
times offered to provide the whatever
remains of netanyahu's Coalition with
cover for the sake of supporting such a
deal uh and you know as far as we
understand that you know such a deal
would only have to be approved by the
government and not by the entire CET but
nevertheless he would have the cover he
needs from opposition parties and so uh
you know the opposition party yet of La
the which is currently not in the
expanded War Coalition and I imagine
there could be other parties that would
follow so there could be a situation in
which the government the original
government Falls but there are enough
parties that come in and give cover that
it would be able to pass this deal but
that's not a long-term plan for
Netanyahu because of course those
governments could then or those sorry
those other parties could then you know
decide to topple the government if it
loses its majority if the original
parties exit I know it gets into a
little bit you know a little bit in the
weeds but Netanyahu could also it's not
impossible that he would try to
negotiate with those opposition parties
and say fine come in give us cover for
doing this deal because you're
prioritizing life of Israeli hostages
but on the on the agreement that you
have to continue supporting my
government after that deal is over which
you know just means that the country is
mired in political negotiations when
other members of of society the families
the public um is are are primarily
focused on hostage release absolutely
because they are very opposed to
netanyahu's strategy we've seen the
protests out on the streets every week
even before the GS War there massive
opposition to Netanyahu but he's also an
extraordinary political Survivor isn't
he will he survive this war yes he
is well that's a very good question I
mean I think that in the very beginning
the first uh surveys for months
indicated that he was completely done he
was trailing in head-to-head questions
about who's more uh more suitable to be
prime minister behind Benny Gans by you
know double digits often over 20 points
and his party had lost up to half of its
strength his Coalition had lost up to a
third of its strength in Serv for months
October November December January by
February March and and most recently his
party and his Coalition have been
recovering somewhat in surveys and for
the first time just a few days ago
surveys showed that in a head-to-head
contest he actually was ahead of Benny
Gans by a few points it's still an
outlier in the surveys but I always
thought it was premature to write him
off for the reasons that you said and
you know including from the very
beginning because ultimately I think
what happened is that this war you know
the devast of hamas's October 7th
attacks and the war in many ways you
know shook Israelis to their core and
have generated enormous generational
trauma that will never go away but it
also has reinforced many people's
pre-existing positions both with
relation to the conflict and the
occupation and with relation to Israeli
politics and so I'm not entirely
surprised to see some of the original
Dynamics on the Electoral level going
back to where they were before the war
it's too early to say mostly because we
don't know when elections will be held
and it very much depends on the timing
if elections had been held anytime in
the first six months I think Netanyahu
would have lost but it always seemed to
me uh you know a a a reasonable
assumption that if elections are held
only a year after the October 7th
attacks that Netanyahu had a better
chance of surviving this somehow
remember he has many political pressures
he does have those corruption cases and
parties that will never sit in
government with him as a result so he
has limited options Daria shinon great
speak to you thanks very much indeed for
taking time join us there from T
Aviv thank you for having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al